Let's cross over to tck Abu aoom our
correspondent in De alala in central
Gaza while that presentation tarck was
happening by the Israelis we were also
showing live pictures of what's going on
across Gaza right now the Israelis are
talking about Crossings being open Aid
going in and everything's just fine yet
there were huge black plumes of smoke
hitting the Gaza Strip as their
presentation was underway at the ha just
bring us up to speed on what was going
on this last
[Music]
hour well all what Israel has said was
completely contradictory to the
realities on the ground you have been
contacting with members in Rafa Crossing
they have been confirmed that nothing
has entered the Gaza Strip from Rafa and
K Abu Salam Crossing Borders in terms of
humanitarian Aid only what get into the
territory just before the Israeli
military incuron to rafah was one fuel
truck to the Ona had been delivered and
that's absolutely reflects how much
Israel is working to aace truth and to
even to change facts on the ground as we
they continue their in a unrelenting
circle of bombardment aurus Rafa and in
the North in jabalia refugee camp now uh
the United Nations have been responsible
for getting all kinds of AIDS in the
previous periods that were were
completely pre the invasion of Rafa and
we have been insisting on the fact that
any potential military incursion of Rafa
will be a big plow for all humanitarian
efforts being made on the ground to
mitigate the aggravating humanitarian
crisis and within the past couple of
hours more intensification of
bombardment by the Israeli military in
the north of this trip in jabalia
refugee camp as battles did not witness
any kind of until now as the Israeli
military is demolishing complete
residential neighborhoods one after the
other in light of their ongoing efforts
to seize all kind of military control on
the north of this strip as till now the
Israeli military tanks are still
surrounding the entrance of banan town
in the north as bombardment continued as
well in B Laha town and the far Northern
western parts of the north of this trip
Amed ongoing hovering of Israeli
military drones as you can hear right
now in the background in Dar balah this
is where Palestinians have been told to
seek refuge and it's going to be a safe
place for them but yet more casualty
among civilians are getting into ala are
getting to Al AA Hospital from different
parts of the middle regions as
bombardment there continued as well
tarck Israel gives the impression that
this is a voluntary move of those that
are in Rafa but this is really forc
displacement isn't it they're warning
people you need to move or you're going
to
die well it's not all related to the
controversially evacuation orders being
passed by the Israeli military they have
been using this under intense fire power
means that it's sending a clear reminder
for Palestinians if you did not leave
you will be killed not you're going to
die only because that is the military
approach that being used by the Israeli
military in the initial months of the
war when they invaded the north of the
Str now they have been expanding the
fighting to reach kanun and right now
ending up in Rafa families and civilians
in the north of the in the Eastern
portion of Rafa District have been
receiving warnings to flee they managed
to flee we are talking about more than
100 uh I'm sorry more than 600,000
Palestinians fled Rafa since the
beginning of the operation there and at
the same time there are still thousands
of people in Rafa in the middle and even
in the western areas of rafah District
which is close to al- maasi and that's
absolutely a very devastating scenario
if Israel is trying to smoothly expand
the military incursion of Rafa City
especially in light of more growing uh
even warnings for people in the middle
area specifically speically on the
vicinity of Al Kuwaiti hospital and the
shabura neighborhoods as Medics as we
have been confirming before that they
have been receiving calls by the Israeli
officers to leave the area because
hospitals will no longer be safe places
even for medical workers T briefly I
just want to ask you one final question
because we know that Israeli
surveillance zone is in your vicinity
and based on what we've just heard at
the ha I just want you to clarify for
our viewers are the crossings open or
closed have has any any Aid come in is
Israel in your opinion and the sources
that you're talking to on the ground
abiding by humanitarian international
law and looking after the Palestinians
in Gaza and the field hospitals and
mobile clinics that the Israelis just
talked about in the ha are fully staffed
and have lots of medicine can you just
briefly tell us what your opinion of
that statement
is well to make it clear soale now both
K Abu Salam and Rafa Crossing are closed
now from the Palestinian side the
Israeli military is taking full control
as Egypt refused that Israel will be
responsible for conducting and running a
Rafa Crossing and they are calling for
an independent Palestinian entity to run
the border and to allow for further Aid
to get into the Gaza Strip now K Abu
Salam Ming is under the Israeli control
initially and they have been also
challenged by the settlers attack on Aid
convoys that are getting into the Gaza
Strip pre Raa operations but since the
beginning of the operation no Aid get
into the Gaza Strip throughout the
southern Crossing Borders of the strip
in the north there was a new point that
Israel has made in order to allow for a
to get into the strip and since the
establishment of that point only a very
limited number of trucks get to the
people in the north and since the
expansion of the fighting and the new
operation being launched in jabalia
refugee camp no Aid get to to the people
in the north so what Israel has been
saying in the international court of
justice hearings is completely
contradictory to what we have been going
through and feeling on the ground we do
not see an aid get into the Gaza STP
there was more growing appeal from
United Nations about the importance of
of reopening all Crossing Borders to
avoid any kind of famine could be
looming in the Horizon and mainly
Palestinians are graveling now to get
food what only get into the Gaza Strip
are 52 Commercial trucks that were in
inserted to their territory in
coordination with the Israeli side they
all gone to the private sector and they
are right now sold in the Palestinian
market with the skyrocketing prices so
that's all the reality on the ground as
Palestinians till this very moment are
struggling in order to get their Basics
life- saving supplies and they are
saying that the new martime and floating
dock could not be a proper effective
alternative for land routs that could be
more helpful than the maritime one was
recently established in the middle area
Tabu isum there for us in darl Bala with
that Israeli surveillance throne above
his head thanks very much uh tarck
will'll check in with you later in the
day as well